Britain is expected to warn Israel later
on Wednesday that its patience is
running out over the humanitarian
situation in Gaza Israeli War cabinet
minister Benny gance is visiting the UK
following diplomatic meetings in
Washington this week that trip was
reportedly not sanctioned by Israel's
prime minister UK's foreign secretary
David Cameron spoke of the Dreadful
suffering in Gaza on Tuesday and
protests against Israel's war on the
Strip have been held regularly across
the
UK let's speak now to our correspondent
in London Rory Chalin Rory buy gance we
understand has arrived in the UK from
the US how's he likely to be received by
the foreign secretary David
Cameron well Laur I think like the
reception that Benny Gant received uh in
the United States in the last few days
he is going to get a message of deep
frustration uh from David Cameron when
he meets him here at the foreign Office
later in the day now David Cameron has
been briefing about it uh in the last
few hours he said that he has warned a
few weeks ago about the danger of famine
and disease in Gaza and he says we are
now at that point he says that patience
needs to run very thin and a whole
series of warnings need to be given
starting uh with the meeting that I am
going to have with uh Minister Gant he
says that the amount of Aid that Israel
allowed into Gaza in February was about
half as much as it allowed in during
during January so there's deep concern
about the humanitarian situation there
and another specific warning for Israel
for Benny Gant that's uh coming from
David Cameron saying that Israel is the
occupying power it is responsible uh and
that it has and that has consequences
including he says in how we look at
whether Israel is compliant with
International humanitarian law so a lot
of things for Benny Gans to be thinking
about as he head home a lot of things
but will any of it have any
impact yeah well I mean there are a few
things to say about that first of all is
that yes though he goes back conveying
this message of frustration uh and uh
that comes from the United Kingdom and
it comes from the United States David
Cameron saying that patience is wearing
thin The Logical conclusion of that is
that there is still patience you know
these already warm machine does still
have some rope it still have some leeway
from its allies uh in the west another
thing to look at is well who is Benny
gance anyway uh he is a member of the
war cabinet yes but he is also an
opposition politician a former prime
minister this uh trip that he's on um I
think is viewed by many people within
the Israeli government as essentially a
freelancing Enterprise uh Netanyahu is
apparently no fan of it and it was
reported in the isra media that he had
told the Israeli Embassy in uh the
United States not to support gance on
this Mission so there are plenty in the
right wing of uh Net's Coalition you
think this this is a kind of Trojan
horse for the United States to try and
push the two-state solution which they
are no fan of uh as well so don't expect
many gants to go back to Israel and get
a warm reception and an open ear from
Netanyahu and his Coalition allies no
indeed Roy Chalin many thanks for
joining us with that from London some